# nix-server-tools
Server tools generated by Nix.


## Usefull tips.

### Working with Docker.

#### Docker Contexts.

Should create a Nix `derivation` to hold all the files for the Docker context to hold the files that the local `COPY` command in the `Dockerfile` would reference.

Note:
- Nix `pkgs.stdenv.mkDerivation` automatically changes `shebang` lines for scripts to refer to paths in the Nix `store` which wouldn't work inside the docker container, so need to add `dontPatchShebangs = true;` as an attribute to the `pkgs.stdenv.mkDerivation` function call.
  - Note:
    - This applies to executables.
      - Ex: The outputs of `pkgs.writeScript`, but not the outputs of `pkgs.writeText`.
  - For example by default `pkgs.stdenv.mkDerivation` rewrites `#!/bin.sh` to `#!/nix/store/<hash>-some-bash/bin/sh`.
  - Reference: [NixOS - What is the `patchShebangs` command in Nix build expressions?](https://discourse.nixos.org/t/what-is-the-patchshebangs-command-in-nix-build-expressions/12656)


### Working with Nix Flakes

#### Checking correctness of the flake.nix file & corresponding code (& build inputs), without building.

`nix flake check`

#### Updating the build inputs

To get the latest versions of the build inputs can run `nix flake update` before `nix build .#`.

#### Using `builtins.getEnv` with Nix flake.

To read environment variables from the shell context where `nix build .#<proxy>` is called:
- Need to use `nix build .#<proxy> --impure` if using `builtins.getEnv("ENV_NAME")` in the Nix code that will be derived with the build call.
    - Otherwise the environment variables would not be set, and the result of `builtins.getEnv("ENV_NAME")` would be `""`.
    - Use `--impure` with caution.

#### Using local git repo as build inputs (usefull for quick prototyping during development).

For the build input url can use: `git+file://<absolute path to the local git repo>`.

Also see:
- [Updating the build inputs](#updating-the-build-inputs)

### Working with secrets.

Nix automatically copies files into the nix-store. So recommend that secrets files should be encrypted anytime building with Nix such as `nix build .#` or `nix develop .#`, and the secret files should decrypted only when ecessary such as when running `docker compose up`.
